---
layout: default
title: "Cases"
---

### Layout ###

The layout of the case is very important, especially when building or modifying
your build.  A well-designed case makes it easy to get your hands in to reach
all the parts as you install or change things, and provides good and easy
routing for wires.  Many people like a clean build, where the cabling is either
completely out of sight, or neatly bundled and routed, so you can enjoy the
asthetics of your components through the spacious, lovely tempered glass window
of your case (more on this below). Layout also includes things like
well-considered placement of mounts for your SATA SSD(s) and any spinning drives
you may have, sleds for slding these drives easily into place (vs having to
screw things in), and space used up for components that most people no longer
need (like dvd-roms or 3.5 inch drives of some sort).  A good case should be
open and accessible, while at the same time, providing a structure that can
easily hide the parts you don't want to see in your build.

### Materials ###

For the side panel, you want tempered glass vs plexiglass.  Plexiglass is less
expensive, and in the pictures looks fine.  However, in practice, it scratches
very easily, and is not as clear or nice-looking as tempered glass. Anywhere
there is screening for vents, you want that to be removable.  Some slide, some
attach magnetically, but you need to be able to easily access and remove them to
clean the dust out periodically.  If you don't/can't, eventually your computer
will start to run hotter, which is bad for the components.

### Airflow ###

I cannot stress enough the importance of airflow (unless you are going fully
water-cooled, but that is a lot of design work, and very expensive).  There are
different opinions on the best routing for this, but my preference is intake in
the front, exhaust in the rear and on the top.  The more fans you can fit, the
better.  You can get quiet fans with or without LED lighting (be Quiet!, Cooler
Master, Phanteks, NZXT, and Fractal all make good fans (and cases!), though 
there are others as well, like Noctua).  You can usually fit one in the back,
2-3 on the top, and 2-3 in the front.  Many cases will come with a few of their
own to get you started. Sometimes this is enough, but often it is not. If you
are going with LEDs, they are most noticable on the front and back, less so on
the top (unless you are placing the computer in a spot where you see the top
frequently -iow, not on your desk).  Many cases will come with a breakout box
for addding fans, as the wires tend to be short, and therefore difficult to
attach directly to the motherboard without an extension (which often does not
match or look very nice).

### Examples and Brands ###

#### The DiyPC ####

With our first builds, we went primarily for the overall look, without
considering much of the above.  One that we thought was very cool looking (and
that we got) was the [DIYPC
Gamemax-W-RGB](https://www.newegg.com/p/N82E16811353135).  This case is no
longer available, and I would not recommend it anyway, but at about $70, is a
good example of something that looks nice if you don't know what to look for.

![diypc](/assets/images/diypc.jpg)

We thought it looked kind of like a cool spaceship, and very high tech.
However, we did not realize how little you can actually see through that side
panel, since it is only partially open, nor how poor the airflow was, or how
difficult it would be to work with.  Take a look at the internal layout:

![diypc_internal](/assets/images/diypc_internal.jpg)

On the plus side, it does have sleds for spinning drives.  However, the section
above it is completely wasted, as there is nothing we need to put in there, and
the space it takes up could be open, making it easier to work in.  If the side
were full clear tempered glass, you would see any HDDs you had in those sleds,
whichs adds nothing to the asthetics.  Even in this image, you can see what a
mess the wires are - there is no good routing provided.  To the right of the
sleds, on the lower half of the front of the case, is where the front intake
fans are.  The top front has absolutely no airflow, and the bottom is largely
blocked by the HDD cage. The top, which is not easily visible here, has an
even smaller opening for exhaust.  These things combine for a case that runs
very hot. Airflow is super important, so the more open the design of the case
(provided good fan vents/locations), the easier it will be to keep cool. 
We ended up removing the side completely to allow us to see the inside and make
it cool. This is obviously not ideal, because now the inside of the case is
susceptible to dust, which needs to be blown out periodically with a can of
compressed air. Also note that where the power supply goes on the bottom is not
enclosed at all, so you see the entire PSU and all cables coming out of it
(though this is because we removed the side panel, which would otherwise cover
it).  So, the places where things should be open, they are closed, and where
they are closed, they should be open.  Overall, a very poor design - though it
still looks cool from the outside.  These are things you don't realize when you
have not done this kind of build before.

#### Cooler Master ####

[This
one](https://www.newegg.com/black-cooler-master-masterbox-td500-atx-mid-tower/p/N82E16811119343)
worked out a bit better, but has some of the same issues as the last one.  There
are more fans in the front, and the exhaust on the top is much larger. In
addition, it has magnetically attached screens that are easy to remove and
clean.  However, the fans on the front are blocked by the plexiglass in front of
them, only drawing air from the base.  The back is nice and open for airflow, so
the front is the limiting factor here. The side panel is clear (well, smoky
grey, but you can see through it fine) and allows you to see the entire inside
of the build.  However, because of the facets it is not as clear as I would
like.  Also, the plexiglass is finicky, and the placement of the screws makes it
easy for the side panel to fall off when removing them. This case was also in
the $70 range.

![cooler_master](/assets/images/cooler_master.jpg)


As you can see below, the inside is much more open, with a tunnel for the power
supply and cables. This tunnel also hides sleds for HDDs, so you can keep them
and their wiring out of the way.  This is generally a good setup, unless you
change them frequently, as you need to remove the panel on the other side
(which on most cases is solid metal) to access them.  There is ample routing
provided, if you note the shrouds directly above the right side of the PSU
tunnel.  These have space behind them, allowing you to have the wires hidden
until they get very close the the location in the board or card where you need
to plug them in. There is space on the back side of this panel to put SSD
sleds, which is a good location - close, but not visible.

![cooler_master_internal](/assets/images/cooler_master_internal.jpg)

Overall, this case is better than the previous one.  The improvements that would
move it up to being a very good case in my opinion are that is should have
tempered glass on the side panel, and needs better airflow in the front.  Aside
from that, it is a matter of what you like in terms of look.

#### Phanteks ####

The next review is for the [Phanteks Eclipse
P350X](https://www.amazon.com/Phanteks-Eclipse-PH-EC350PTG_DBK-Mid-Tower-Tempered/dp/B07D5T4SC1).

This one was purchased after the others, so I was able to use the knowledge I
had acquired about what was good and bad in the other cases (along with much
more research).  This one, in my opinion, solves all the issues the others had,
or at least almost. It has a tempered glass side which is slightly tinted, but
still easy to see through. Surprisingly, it was about the same $70 price (you
will note in the linked product page it is no longer made, but I am pretty sure
the P360X is the newer version (I only see white, but they probably have
black somewhere). The airflow through the front is much better than the other
cases because the angled sides are mesh all the way up, allowing much more air
to be pulled in.  There are some cases that are even more geared toward airflow,
if you like the look of them.  This gave me a balance of a clean look with solid
features and easy to work in internals.

![phanteks](/assets/images/phanteks.jpg)


As you can see below, the inside is completely open.  Probably the only downside
is the power supply tunnel makes it a little tight for installing the
motherboard, but not too bad.  A way to avoid this would be a slightly taller
case.  There are shrouds for wiring, which are barely visible in the image, but
they are there, and easy to use.  Additionally, Phanteks includes velcro straps
in strategic spots, as well as some extras you can use anywhere, which are very
helpful for making a clean build.  Notice that the tunnel is also the full
length of the interior of the case, which means there is not a pointless,
unusable blank spot in the front, like the Cooler Master. This case also hides
HDD sleds in the tunnel, but they are accessed from the front by removing the
front panel (which simply clips in place).  This can be handy if the non-glass
side if your cases is not as easily accessible.

![phanteks_internal](/assets/images/phanteks_internal.jpg)

#### Brands ####

As mentioned above, [Fractal
Design](https://www.fractal-design.com/products/cases/),
[NZXT](https://nzxt.com/collection/h510), and
[Phanteks](http://phanteks.com/Eclipse-Series.html) are all very highly
regarded case manufacturers. Note that the links for phanteks and nzxt are to
specific lines, but they have other lines too - just not a link to cases at the
general level. Lian Li makes some nice ones too, though they tend
to be more expensive, like [this
one](https://www.newegg.com/white-lian-li-pc-o11-dynamic-atx-mid-tower/p/N82E16811112582).
I mentioned earlier that there are some that have even more airflow, the
[Fractal Design Meshify 
C](https://www.amazon.com/Fractal-Design-FD-CA-MESH-C-WT-TGC-Computer-Case/dp/B074PGBGHW)
is a good example of this.  Good sources of reviews for cases are the Gamer's
Nexus YouTube channel I mention on the main page, and pcper.com.  The big thing
is to thoroughly research whatever case you are interested in to make sure there
is not something wrong with the design before committing to it.  Store reviews
are a good starting point, but reviews by tech journalists and reputable
youtubers will quickly surface issues to be aware of that may not show up in
reviews.
