---
layout: default
title: "Motherboards"
---

## Overview ##

While Intel is a very good and viable option, my experience is with AMD, so that
is what I will describe here.  You get a good value, very good performance, and
the option to upgrade the cpu without changing the motherboard for a number of
CPU generations.  The current socket is called AM4, and from what I have heard,
will have one more CPU gen supported before they move to AM5.  AM4 has been
supported for the entire Ryzen history (so, since the 1000 series chips). After
that were the 2000, 3000, and 5000 series (which is the most current, not sure
why they skipped 4000). I would recommend going with either a 3600 or 5600 (with
or without the X designation after it), depending on availability and your
budget. Newer is definitely more performant, and X is slightly more performant,
usually for very little price difference, but this is one to watch for sales and
price changes.  My son has the [5600X](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08166SLDF/),
currently $273, and I have the
[3600X](https://www.amazon.com/AMD-Ryzen-3600X-12-Thread-Processor/dp/B07SQBFN2D).
Weirdly, my older one is currently more expensive, at $320, though this was not
the case when I bought it.  An alternative to keep cost down here is to look at
a 'G' series, which has graphics integrated.  You can then later add a discrete
graphics card if desired.  A current example is the
[5600G](https://www.amazon.com/AMD-Ryzen-5600G-12-Thread-Processor/dp/B092L9GF5N).
However, if you have access to a free graphics card to hold you over (say, from
a friend), I would not advocate this path, I think the dedicated CPU/GPU is
going to give better overall performance.

## B550 ##

* [Asus ROG Strix B550-F Gaming](https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B088W7RKVZ)
  - B550s are considered 'mid range', but they are generally more than
    sufficient for gaming and other uses.  There may be slightly fewer sata
    connections allowed, which is only an issue if you plan to hook up tons of
    drives, and they don't support PCIe 4, which is not an issue, because almost
    nothing else supports it yet either (including graphics cards). Some high
    end NVMe storage supports it, but that is pro level stuff.
  - This has some lighting, inlcuding the RoG (Republic of Gamers) logo, which
    may be a plus or minus, depending what you like.
  - Prices vary, this was $178 when we got it.

![rog_mb](/assets/images/b550_rog.jpg)

## X570 ##

* [Asus TUF Gaming X570-Plus](https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B07SXFK1TP)
  - The TUF Gaming series has a bit of a different aesthetic, using black with
    yellow highlights, and less lighting.  There is also a 
    [B550](https://smile.amazon.com/ASUS-TUF-B550-PLUS-Motherboard-Addressable/dp/B088W57M4J)
    model, which looks more readily available than this X570, and costs a bit
    less.  I don't have personal experience with this one, so definitely check
    the reviews.
  - This ran about $200 at one point, the B550 model looks to be about $160.

![tuf_x570](/assets/images/x570_tuf_gaming.jpg)

## Avoid ##

I do not recommend MSI motherboards.  I ordered 2 identical boards, one was
fine, and the other had numerous, difficult to prove issues.  It started with
the sound output never working right, and was compounded over time with various
performance issues that would have been nearly impossible to get an RMA for
(plus they tend to take a long time). The specific one we had issues with was
the [X470 GAMING PLUS](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07CF31C1Q).
