---
layout: default
title: "Power Supplies"
---

##### Modular vs. Not #####

A modular power supply is simply one that allows you to fully remove (and
potentially replace, as needed) all cables that connect to it.  This can be handy
if you need, say, the new cable that the latest video cards require, but your
power supply was purchased before those cards were available.  There are
standard connections on the power supply end that can then connect to different
things on your computer, depending on the cable (SATA, motherboard, graphics,
etc).  The other common option is 'semi-modular', which, as it may sound,
provides some of the benefits of modular with removable cables, but not ALL are
removable.  These generally cost a bit less and are flexible enough for the
majority of people's needs, unless you are a major hardware enthusiast that is
upgrading parts constantly.  There are few, if any, non-modular PSUs (power
supply units), but I would strongly encourage not considering any you may find,
even if the price is tempting.

##### Efficiency #####
PSUs are rated on their efficiency in power usage to power supplied with a
rare-metal-based system.  So, Bronze is at or near the bottom, Platinum at or
near the top, and the others in between, where you would expect them to be.
Efficiency is important to me, so I went with Gold or Gold+, but money can be
saved here on the purchase price by going with a slightly lower rating. There
are many good reviews and a guide that provides more details than I have on
[PCper](https://pcper.com/pcper-article/choose-right-power-supply-pc/).

##### Brands #####

I would stay away from no-name brands, as a bad power supply can destroy your
entire system.  A bit more cost here for a quality product is money well spent, 
and will provide peace of mind that your investment is as safe as possible.
Even a reliable supply that provides a 'dirty' signal (high AC ripple and noise)
can cause problems, so you definitely want to read reviews of the one(s) you are
considering.  Some brands that have had issues recently are good overall brands
for other things, specifically Corsair (great for keyboards, mice, headsets),
and Gigabyte (which I recommend elsewhere for a graphics card).  Gigabyte had
some new power supplies recently that the tech reviewers had many issues and
concerns about, not the least of with was they could catch fire and explode!
Gigabyte has not handled this criticism well, blaming reviewers rather than
doing a recall and taking responsibility for a bad design.  Good video about
this by Steve from [Gamer's Nexus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2SleaZ68ZO0).
I got a Corsair that had good reviews, but when I got it, it was completely
dead! It is possible that was a one time occurrence, but rather than try again,
I got an EVGA, which is what all of ours are, so I would highly recommend this
brand.  I have also read many good reviews about 'be Quiet!', but they tend to
be a bit more expensive, and I have no personal experience with them (they also
make quality cases, see the [page](/cases) on that). 

I have an [EVGA
750GQ](https://www.newegg.com/evga-750-gq-210-gq-0750-v1-750w/p/N82E16817438060)
semi-modular.  Currently, this is $79, I paid $75, so this ia a reasonable
price.  Note that prices fluctuate a lot on these things.

![evga_gq](/assets/images/evga_gq.jpg)

The kids have an
[EVGA  650 G3](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01LYGFRL6). As you can see, it
is the same price, and you get slightly lower wattage, but it is fully modular.

![evga_g3](/assets/images/evga_g3.jpg)
